Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun and former Senate President, Bukola Saraki, on Saturday, described the General Overseer, Redeemed Christian Church of God, Enoch Adeboye, as an exceptional leader whose teachings have impacted positively the lives of many.

Abiodun and Saraki disclosed this in their separate messages issued to celebrate Adeboye who clocked 82 on Saturday.

Celebrating the clergy Abiodun, according to a statement, said Adeboye has always been consistent in advocating for peace, unity and the socio-economic well-being of the country.

The governor said, “On behalf of the people of Ogun State, I would like to extend my warmest congratulations to you on the occasion of your 82nd birthday. Your life and ministry have been a source of inspiration and blessings to millions of people around the world.

“As the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, you have demonstrated exceptional leadership and unwavering commitment to the spiritual growth and development of your followers.

“Your teachings and guidance have touched the lives of countless individuals, offering them hope, encouragement, and a deeper understanding of the word of God.

“Your impact extends beyond the walls of the church, as you have consistently advocated for peace, unity, and socio-economic development in our nation. Your efforts to promote education, healthcare, and social welfare have made a significant difference in the lives of many.”
Abiodun added that “we are grateful for your selfless service and dedication to the betterment of humanity,” adding that Adeboue’s “humility, wisdom and integrity are qualities” that are deeply admired and worthy to emulate.

He prayed that God continues to bless the cleric and wished him “more years of fruitful service.”

Saraki, an ex-governor of Kwara State, while rejoicing with Adeboye on the occasion of his 82nd birthday in a statement posted on his Facebook page, lauded the cleric for his devoted life of drawing people closer to God through exemplary work on the pulpit.

The former Senate President wrote, “The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, has devoted his life to drawing people closer to God through his exemplary work on the pulpit.

“Today, as he celebrates his 82nd birthday, my family and I, join millions worldwide, to extend our warmest congratulations.

“May the Almighty continue to bless Pastor Adeboye with wisdom, strength, and great health as he guides the RCCG.”

President Bola Tinubu, on Friday, in a statement signed by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Ajuri Ngelale; celebrated Adeboye “on hitting another milestone and joins the Body of Christ in thanksgiving for General Overseer’s remarkable life of impact that transcends cultures and borders.”