The Ondo State Governor, Lucky Aiyedatiwa, has ordered the security agencies to investigate and arrest those who allegedly destroyed the billboards of some state governorship aspirants and attacked members of the All Progressives Congress during the visit of President Bola Tinubu to the state.

The President had visited the family of late former Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, and the Olowo of Owo, Oba Ajibade Ogunoye in Owo as well as the national leader of the pan-Yoruba socio-political group, Afenifere, Pa Reuben Fasoranti, in Akure, on Wednesday.

During Tinubu’s visit, both the Olusola Oke Campaign Organisation and the Wale Akinterinwa Campaign Organisation accused Aiyedatiwa’s supporters of destroying the posters and billboards.

Aiyedatiwa, in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Ebenezer Adeniyan, on Friday, denied the allegation and condemned violent activities.

He said, “As the governor has said repeatedly, any political campaign that disturbs the peace in the state is unacceptable and must be met with the decisive actions of law enforcement agencies.

“It is pertinent to make it clear that nobody associated with the governor or the government of Ondo State was involved in any of the reported activities ascribed to ‘political thugs’ during the President’s visit to Owo and Akure.

“The governor has therefore asked law enforcement agencies in the state to arrest and prosecute anyone found to be engaged in such violent activities. The governor urges politicians and their followers to ensure that their campaigns are issue-based, devoid of blackmail, spreading falsehood, inciting the public and intimidating opponents.”

The Administrative Secretary of the Oke Campaign Organisation, Mr Courage Oladele, on Friday, said, “What was supposed to be a rousing welcome and celebration of the visit of Mr President was turned into a theatre of violence and bloody attack on our supporters and other APC members who were waiting for the arrival of the President.

“We have thought that the dark days of thuggery and politics of violence are over and may the day never come when a supposed leader of men will re-enact the gory experience of the past.

“It is in the light of the above and the need to call the attention of Mr Governor to the shameful and undemocratic actions of these elements who wore vests and caps with his (Aiyedatiwa) photograph and name to attack my supporters.”

Similarly, a statement issued by the Director of Publicity of the Wale Akinterinwa Campaign Organisation, Mr Segun Ajiboye, said many of the APC members were injured by the suspected thugs after destroying the billboards of Akinterinwa.

“The thugs, who brazenly fired gunshots into the air to confuse, went on a destruction spree as they attacked property, while billboards of other gubernatorial aspirants were defaced, pulled down or out rightly destroyed.

“Party members perceived to be loyal to all gubernatorial aspirants save for Governor Lucky Ayedatiwa sustained varied and diverse degree injuries resulting from the attacks unleashed on them. T-shirts, faze caps and other insignia worn by members of the targeted aspirants were torn to shreds.

