The residents of Niger State received a rare gift on the eve of the Diamond Jubilee anniversary of the State Governor, Mohammed Bago, who marked another milestone in the history of the state after mobilising 37 contractors to sign a total of 252 contracts covering 556 kilometer roads in the 25 Local Government Areas of the state.

Arewa PUNCH reports that the event which was nothing short of pomp and pageantry enjoyed robust mention on the state based radio stations such as the Niger Radio, Badegi and Prestige F.Ms as the residents and people of the state jostled to extend their congratulatory messages to Governor Bago.

Many of the messages monitored extolled Bago’s virtues, and giant strides in the development of Niger state.

A visit by Arewa PUNCH to the Government House on the birthday date proper revealed a place bubbling with a beehive of activities of some sort.

Meanwhile, the Governor himself was sighted in the Council Chambers hosting one group or the other, and one  organisation after another.

“Today is business unusual,” a commissioner told our correspondent.

Although the “birthday boy governor” as some of his political associates tagged him still appeared to be neck deep in his official duties, as though he is unoblivious of his special day and the several special events outlined for him.

During the contract signing ceremony which incidentally was the first engagement of the day, Bago who observed that the state has a huge infrastructural deficit assured that his administration is poised to construct 2,000 kilometres of roads in the next four years, adding that about a trillion naira funding has been secured to cater to the infrastructural development of the state.

He noted that the execution of the projects became necessary to engender development across the state in line with his Urban Renewal Policy, while explaining that the award of the contracts was in collaboration with all the Local Government Chairmen.

The governor equally pointed out that the contractors were carefully selected following their track records and urged them to maintain standards in their work by keeping to the agreed time frame.

He warned that any contractor that compromises quality would have his contract terminated.

While encouraging the contractors to patronise local content and relate with the relevant ministries to get a list of reliable youths that can be engaged to better their lot he promised that the state would liaise with all relevant stakeholders to ensure the security of their lives and equipment while tasking them to be vigilant and report any suspicious activities to relevant authorities.

The Commissioner for Works, Suleiman Umar, signed on behalf of the State Government while representatives of the contracting firms signed for their respective companies.

Lead Consultant, Olatunji Ajayi, disclosed that 330 firms applied for the contracts, and after evaluation of bids, 37 were selected for the 37 lots of the project, which he said has 252 roads in total.

The Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Mu’azu Jantabo disclosed that his ministry had already engaged a consultant who would provide the technical know-how to follow up on the projects and assured that the ministry would also ensure that the benefiting communities take ownership of the projects so that the desired objectives will be achieved.

The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Works, Hassan Etsu and the Chairman of the New Niger Development Project, Mustapha Aliyu while acknowledging the huge benefit of the project to Nigerlites, solicited support from all and sundry for a better State.

Some of the Contractors who spoke with Arewa PUNCH appreciated the Niger State Government for finding them worthy of executing the projects and reaffirmed their commitment to carrying out the projects according to specifications.

One of the contractors,  Prince and Princess, wished the governor well as he celebrates his Diamond Jubilee birthday and prayed that the year would launch the governor into a more fulfilling phase of his life.

“Prince and Princess looks forward to being a custodian of a Renewed Hope Agenda and a new and better Niger with the able governor,” Prince and Princess stated.

Bago, who later spoke to newsmen after the signing ceremony, was asked whether the roads construction was his 50th birthday celebration gift to the people of Niger State? He responded, “Oh, I forgot my birthday. Yes, it is my birthday gift to Niger people.”

He went on to explain that the contractors were expected to engage local content in order to create prosperity in the state. “First and foremost, we thank God for his mercies and guidance. I also thank the people of Niger State for their mandate, and their love and support. So, in a view to appreciate God and appreciate the people of Niger State, we thought it wise to start to change the faces of our local areas.

“We thank our financial institutions for the support they have given us to have given us the hope to start this project. As I am talking to you right now, we have almost N1 trillion at our disposal, and  we are just starting.

“As I said, these contractors will be mobilised to site, and upon presentation of certificates, they will be paid. And we are encouraging them to do a lot of local content by employing our youths and patronise our local contractors by subcontracting some jobs so that there will be prosperity in the land.

“Again, the 556 kilometers roads is just the beginning. By the middle of next year, we intend to ground break another 500 kilometers of roads. In the next four years it’s our intention to cover 2000 kilometers of road. We are ambitious to take over some of the Federal roads. And because we are the largest State in Nigeria it takes you eight hours to go from Minna here to some of the local governments in the state due to bad roads and the only thing we can do for our people that are agrarian is to open up the towns, open up the space so that goods and human beings can be freely conveyed,” he remarked.