The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has stated that it will not extend the deadline for the nomination of candidates by political parties for the Edo State governorship election beyond Sunday, March 24, 2024.

INEC National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Sam Olumekun, who disclosed this in a statement, yesterday, urged political parties to ensure strict compliance with the timelines for the poll.

The Edo governorship will be held on September 21, 2024.

Olumekun said that as provided by the timetable and schedule of activities for the forthcoming off-cycle Edo State governorship election, the deadline for the conduct of primaries by political parties expired on February 24, 2024.

He said the next activity was the submission of nomination forms by political parties via the dedicated online portal, adding that political parties have from March 4 to March 24 to file their nominations.

He stated: “The Commission has earmarked a period of 20 days for political parties to upload the Personal Particulars (Form EC9) and Names/List of Nominated candidates (Form EC9B) of their candidates to the portal which will open at 9.00 am on Monday, 4th March 2024 and automatically shut down at 6.00 pm on Sunday, 24th March 2024. Access Code to the portal will be available for collection by the National Chairmen of political parties from today.”

He said the commission was organising a refresher training for two Liaison Officers per party to help political parties to ensure seamless nominations.

“The training commences today Friday, March 1, 2024, and ends on Monday, March 4, 2024. The venue is the Media Centre at the INEC Headquarters in Abuja.

“The Media Centre will also serve as the Help Desk during the period of nomination of candidates in case any political party needs assistance.

“The Commission wishes to draw the attention of political parties that 20 days are enough to upload the nomination forms of only two candidates per party (governorship candidate and running mate).

“Therefore, there is no reason to request for an extension of time and none will be granted beyond Sunday 24th March 2024.

“Political parties should ensure strict compliance with the timelines,” he stated.