Aareonakakanfo, Igboho Others Pledge To Support Mission
Not less than 200 traditional rulers in the South West zone of the country led by the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, yesterday, decried the prevailing insecurity across the zone as well as in Kogi and Kwara states, which have a good population of Yoruba people.

The monarchs along with the Aareonakakanfo of Yoruba land, Iba Gani Adams, during a security summit held in Osun State, harped on the unity of all traditional rulers, stakeholders and politicians to address the insecurity confronting the Yoruba race.

They said that something urgent and meaningful needed to be done to address the influx of criminally minded foreigners into the area before they cause unprecedented damage to Yoruba nation.

Oba Adeyeye, who convened the meeting said:
“The unity of all the traditional rulers in Yoruba land is key to the success of the region,” he said.

He added that the security challenges in Yoruba land could be tackled with measures and approaches that are capable of putting an end to the scourge.

In his remarks, the Aareonakakanfo, who spoke on ‘Kidnapping and Banditry: Overcoming the Twin Menace and the Yoruba Legacy of African Science, Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow’, said he was deeply concerned about the protracted security deficit in Yoruba land.

He stated that the parliamentary system of government remains the best option that could help in restoring the respect and dignity of Yoruba Obas.

He also said Yoruba traditional rulers need to put pressure on the state governors in the region to engage local security groups to fight against bandits and kidnappings in all the forests across Yoruba land.

“We must also collectively make the case for true federalism where proper federal structure with adequate security measures would be put in place to allow for effective and adequate policing of the region,” he said.

Meanwhile, Chief Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho, has expressed his readiness to collaborate with the traditional institution, security agencies and other stakeholders in fighting insecurity in the South West zone.

Reacting to the overtures by the Ooni of Ife and other monarchs seeking his (Adeyemo) involvement in getting rid of hoodlums in the region, Adeyemo said he was ready to assist in ensuring the safety and effective security of lives and properties.

In a personally signed press statement forwarded to journalists, Adeyemo, who was contacted via zoom to share his views on measures to address threats posed by insecurity in the South West while the meeting was ongoing, said: “We need the active involvement of all stakeholders in restoring peace and tranquility in all parts of the South West, most especially our agrarian communities. I am absolutely ready to contribute my quota in this regard if we secure the approval of the security agencies and the traditional institutions in the South West.

“Insecurity and threats precipitated by banditry, herders/farmers clashes, leading to deaths and massive destruction of farmlands have driven away farmers and agric entrepreneurs from farm settlements in Yorubaland. Our fathers and other agile men can no longer engage in cultivation of land for food production,” he said.