Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Nyesom Wike has expressed satisfaction with the work being done by contractors in the nation’s capital.

Ongoing projects in the territory include the provision of Wuye District infrastructure, the FCT Highway 105 (11km six lane dual carriageway) linking the Airport Expressway to Kuje and the official residence of the Vice President.

Speaking on the projects, Wike said he was very happy with the speed and quality of work and commended the contractors.

He said the contractors have also assured that the Wuye/Wuse flyover, which is 85 per cent complete, and the Vice President’s official residence, will be ready by May this year.

The minister further stated that the FCT Highway 105 (11km six lane dual carriageway) linking the Airport Expressway to Kuje, when completed, would open up the area and bring a lot of changes to the FCT.

Wike said, “I have to commend the various contractors. The first site we went to is almost 85 per cent complete, one of those interchanges in Wuye District. The contractors are keeping to faith with their commitment to handover the project by May.

“And then we also went to the Kuje road which is the six lane road. It’s about 11 kilometers. That road from the airport road down to Kuje will open up that area of the Area Council. The last time when I went to flagoff one of the rural roads, we didn’t see much about the contractors and I did say that the contractors are not serious.

“But going back there today, one is very impressed with the level of work and the quality of work. I’m quite impressed with what I saw.”

Speaking further on the official residence of the Vice President, the minister said the contractors were at the stage of electrical installations, which might not be quite visible but assured that a lot of changes would be seen in the next few weeks.

He assured that the project would be ready by May.

Wike also reiterated that no ongoing project in the FCT would be abandoned. He said the projects that are considered as priority have been included in the FCT’s 2024 statutory budget for adequate funding.

According to the minister, “We have always said that we are not going to allow any project to be abandoned. We have taken our priorities and most of these projects are also being included in our 2024 statutory budget, which will soon be presented to the National Assembly by Mr President when he returns from Qatar.”

The minister also addressed the concern of residents over the seeming delay in the road resurfacing project, particularly in the Asokoro District.

He assured that the project would also be ready by May.